---
layout: post
title: Donald Glover
tags: [TV, Thoughts, My life, Music]
color: green
---

This summer, I've been rewatching the phenomenal NBC sitcom "Community." It started with me rewatching the Dungeons and Dragons themed episode because my friends and I recently started our own campaign, but once I started my re-watch, I couldn't stop. The writing is a major bright spot, as each episode feels fresh and unique, but each character is so well defined that it's very rewarding to watch them engage with the crazy situations they are put into. The western-themed paintball fight episodes are iconic, the blanket vs. pillow fort war documentary theme episode is spectacularly over-the-top, and the Law and Order: SVU style episode about a smashed yam in Biology Lab is a strong indicator of the Community writers' boundless creativity. However, another bright spot for the show is the acting. Joel Mchale is perfectly hateable as Jeff Winger, the de facto (and douchey) leader of the group, and Alison Brie is also a great actress. 

The main standout of the show though, at least for 15 year old me during the show's first run through, was Troy Barnes, played by Donald Glover. Troy is a dualistic character; although he was the Quarterback of his High School football team, at college he is considered a nerd, and can frequently be emotional. The way Glover pulls of this character is masterful, and the moments with him and his best friend on the show, Abed, are some of the most wholesome and feel-good of the entire show. I was very intrigued as a teenager to learn that he was also a musician, specifically a rapper. 

During this time, my freshman year in High School, I was the kind of person who thought for lack of a better phrase, "rap was crap." This would probably come as a shock to many of the people who know me now, as I consider rap to be one of my favorite genres of music that I listen to on a daily basis. Glover's music, made under the moniker "Childish Gambino," a name that came into being thanks to a Wu-Tang Clan name generator he found online, unlocked my love for the genre. I can vividly remember the first time I listened to one of his songs, "Bonfire," in 2013. I think my jaw hung agape throughout the entirety of the track's runtime because I was blown away by the sheer intensity and passion of the track. I had never heard an artist this hungry, a rapper who not only told you he was the best in the game, but simultaneously proved it. His clever wordplay and fierce delivery are what initially drew me in, but many tracks were an intimiate and personal look into Glover's upbringing and self-identity. 

Although his early work that was so important to me during my formative years was critically panned, it wasn't for the critics, it was for the kids. Gambino's music taught me that we all feel alone in this world sometimes, and that even though people may hate you for being different, being different, unique, and fun is better than being the same and boring. Flash forward to now, and Glover has outgrown Community, creating his own TV show, "Atlanta," voice acting and featuring on the soundtrack with Beyonce for a #1 movie, and charting at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100. His number 1 hit, "This Is America," is a  politically charged indictment of race relations in present-day America, and capitalized on the cultural moment it was released to blow up in popularity. But I think that fans of the song should go back and listen to his older songs, like "Hold Me Down," off his album Camp, if they wanted to gain a further insight into the personality and inner struggles behind the man who made a general anthem for the time. Although I'm not very proud to admit this, as a suburban white kid from a middle-class family, engaging with Glover through the charming personality yet deep emotional pain felt in the lyrics of his older albums was one of the first times I thought about race relations in an individually aware way. I believe I gained a lot of empathy from engaging with Glover's art, because he was someone who wasn't afraid to put himself out there and be vulnerable in his lyrics. In that way, he's a lot like the character he portrays in Community. Although they may be emotional at times, they're not going to back down from a fight, and they're going to stand up and strongly support the values they believe in. And I believe the world is a better place for it.
